[Doc] Add remove_by_pattern ingest processor (#6295)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ingest-pipelines/processors/remove_by_pattern.md

---
layout: default
title: Remove_by_pattern
parent: Ingest processors
nav_order: 225
redirect_from:
   - /api-reference/ingest-apis/processors/remove_by_pattern/
---

# Remove_by_pattern processor

> The `remove_by_pattern` processor is used to remove the root-level fields from a document using specified wildcard patterns. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `remove_by_pattern` processor removes the root-level fields from a document by using specified wildcard patterns. 
```

## Syntax

The following is the syntax for the `remove_by_pattern` processor: 

```json
{
    "remove_by_pattern": {
        "field_pattern": "field_name_prefix*"
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Configuration parameters

The following table lists the required and optional parameters for the `remove_by_pattern` processor.

| Parameter  | Required/Optional  | Description  |
|---|---|---|
`field_pattern`  | Optional  | Removes fields that match the specified pattern. All of the metadata fields, such as `_index`, `_version`, `_version_type`, and `_id`, are ignored if they match the pattern. This option only supports the root-level fields in the document. |

> `exclude_field_pattern`  | Optional  | Removes fields that do not match the specified pattern. All of the metadata fields, such as `_index`, `_version`, `_version_type`, and `_id`, are ignored if they don't match the pattern. This option only supports the root-level fields in the document. The `field_pattern` and `exclude_field_pattern` options are mutually exclusive. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`exclude_field_pattern`  | Optional  | Removes fields that do not match the specified pattern. All of the metadata fields, such as `_index`, `_version`, `_version_type`, and `_id`, are ignored if they do not match the pattern. This option only supports the root-level fields in the document. The `field_pattern` and `exclude_field_pattern` options are mutually exclusive. |
```

`description`  | Optional  | A brief description of the processor.  |
`if` | Optional | A condition for running the processor. |
`ignore_failure` | Optional | Specifies whether the processor continues execution even if it encounters errors. If set to `true`, the failure is ignored. Default is `false`. |
`on_failure` | Optional | A list of processors to run if the processor fails. |
`tag` | Optional | An identifier tag for the processor. Useful for debugging in order to distinguish between processors of the same type. |

## Using the processor

Follow these steps to use the processor in a pipeline.

**Step 1: Create a pipeline** 

> The following query creates a pipeline, named `remove_fields_by_pattern`, that removes the fields which match the pattern `foo*` from a document: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query creates a pipeline named `remove_fields_by_pattern` that removes the fields that match the pattern `foo*`: 
```
